APIC performs two primary functions for the processor:
- It receives interrupts from the processor’s interrupt pins, from internal sources and from an external I/O APIC
  (or other external interrupt controller). It sends these to the processor core for handling.

- In multiple processor (MP) systems, it sends 
  and receives interprocessor interrupt 
  (IPI) messages to and from
  other logical processors on the system bus. IPI 
  messages can be used to 
  distribute interrupts among the
  processors in the system or 
  to execute system wide functions (such as, booting up processors or distributing
  work among a 
  group of processors).

  The external I/O APIC is part of Intel’s system chip set. Its primaryfunction is to receive external interrupt events
from the system and its associated I/O devices and relay them to the local APIC as interrupt messages. In MP
systems, the I/O APIC also provides a mechanism for distributing external interrupts to the local APICs of selected
processors or groups of processors on the system bus.
This chapter provides a description of the local APIC and its programming interface. It also provides an overview of
the interface between the local APIC and the I/O APIC. Contact Intel for detailed information about the I/O APIC.

When a local APIC has sent an interrupt to its processor core for handling, the processor uses the interrupt and
exception handling mechanism described in Chapter 6, “Interrupt and Exception Handling.” see interrupts/interrupts.txt
“Interrupt and Exception Overview,” for an introduction to interrupt and exception handling.


---- LOCAL AND I/O APIC OVERVIEW ----


Each local APIC consists of a set of APIC registers (see table-1-1.png) and associated hardware that control the
delivery of interrupts to the processor core and the generation of IPI messages. The APIC registers are memory
mapped and can be read and written to using the MOV instruction.
Local APICs can receive interrupts from the following sources:

• Locally connected I/O devices — These interrupts originate as an edge or level asserted by an I/O device
that is connected directly to the processor’s local interrupt pins (LINT0 and LINT1). The I/O devices may also
be connected to an 8259-type interrupt controller that is in turn connected to the processor through one of the
local interrupt pins.


• Externally connected I/O devices — These interrupts originate as an edge or level asserted by an I/O
device that is connected to the interrupt input pins of an I/O APIC. Interrupts are sent as I/O interrupt
messages from the I/O APIC to one or more of the processors in the system.

• Inter-processor interrupts (IPIs) — An Intel 64 or IA-32 processor can use the IPI mechanism to interrupt
another processor or group of processors on the system bus. IPIs are used for software self-interrupts,
interrupt forwarding, or preemptive scheduling.
